Unit 1
1.对于是否应该在大学期间详细规划自己的未来，学生们意见不一。有的人认为对未来应该有一个明确的目标和详细的计划，为日后可能遇到的挑战做好充分的准备；有的人则认为不用过多考虑未来，因为未来难以预料。（map out;brace oneself for;uncertainty）

Students differ about whether they should have their future mapped out when they are still at university.Some think they should have a definite goal and detailed plan,so as to brace themselves for any challenges,whereas some others think they don't have to think much about the future,because future is full of uncertainties.

2.经过仔细检查，这位科学家得知自己患了绝症。虽然知道自己将不久于人世，他并没有抱怨命运的不公，而是准备好好利用剩下的日子，争取加速推进由他和同事们共同发起的那个研究项目，以提前结项。（tick away;make the best of;have a shot at）

After a very careful check-up,the scientist was told he had got a fatal disease.Although he knew that his life was ticking away,instead of complaining about the fate,the scientist decided to make the best of the remaining days,and speed up the research project he and his colleagues initiated,and have a shot at completing it ahead of schedule.



Unit 2
1.在火车站上，有一位老人给我讲述了他参加解放战争的经历，那些战斗故事对我有着极大的吸引力。后来他上了车，列车从我身边隆隆地开走了。可那些故事仍然是那么清晰可见，对于英雄们的壮举，我钦佩不已。（fascination;roar;marvel at）

At the railway station,an old man told me his experience in the Liberation War,the fighting stories of which were of great fascination to me.Then he got up on the train and it roared past me.But the stories were so real and definite that I greatly marveled at the courageous deeds of those war heroes.

2.行之有效的环保政策不仅能创造良好的生态环境，还能大大降低能源消耗。回顾这个地区近年来的发展情况，我们惊喜地发现地区政府强制实行的环保政策不但没有收到任何批评，还促使居民增强另外环保意识，尽其所能节约能源。（consumption;impose;take exception to;prompt）

Effective environmental policy might bring about a good environment,as well as reducing energy consumption.Looking back on the recent development of this region,we find,to our pleasant surprise,that little exception has been taken to the environmental policy of the local government,and the policy has raised the environmental awareness of the local residents and prompted them to save energy as possible as they could.



Unit 3
1.随着婚礼的临近，苏珊变得非常焦虑。她说不清楚是什么让自己如此烦恼。在同好友凯特长谈了一次后，她才意识到，尽管自己已经28岁了，但在情感方面还不够成熟，还没有为婚姻做好准备，也不知道这桩婚姻是否会给自己带来美满的家庭生活。（pin down;guarantee）

As the wedding ceremony was approaching,Susan had become quite anxious.She could not pin down what exactly was troubing her.After a long talk with her close friend Kate,she realized that,although she was 28 years old,she was not emotionally mature enough to be ready for marriage and she was not sure whether the marriage would guarantee her a happy family life.

2.她知道中国学生总是不愿意表达自己的情感和想法，这不仅仅因为他们对自己的英语口语不够自信，还因为他们相信稳重是一种美德。因此她特意设计了一些简单的话题，鼓励学生参与讨论，让他们增强自信心，拉近彼此间的距离。（shy away;engage sb in）

She knew that Chinese students had a way of shying away from revealing their feelings or opinions,due not merely to their lack of confidence in spoken English,but to their belief in the virtue of modesty.So she specially conceived a couple of simple topics and encouraged them in the discussion,in order that they might become more confident and closer with each other.



Unit 4
1.我们根本就看不懂他们的计划书，因为他们的观点不太容易把握。这很可能是因为我们双方对于另一方的思维方式都感到同样的困惑。我认为应该安排一次面谈，让大家消除误会，扫除沟通的障碍。（make up;come to grips with;it's a safe bet that;as baffled ... as）

We couldn't make of their proposal at all,because it was no easy job for us to come to grips with their perspective.It was a safe bet that wo were as much baffled about their way of thinking as they about ours.I think we need to arrange a meeting to clear up misunderstandings and to remove communication barriers.

2.从与他共事二十多年的一位同事所写的传记中不难得出这样的结论：他所代表的绝对是该国二战之后的精英阶层，他们在宗教和政治方面的观念较为保守。（nothing if not;in the wake of;in terms of）

From a biography written by one of his former colleagues who had worked with him for more than two decades,it is not difficult to conclude that what he represented was nothing if not the elite class of the country in the wake of World War II,who were rather conservative in terms of religious and political views.



Unit 5
1.这位年轻人是个侦探小说迷，在看了摩尔摩斯探案故事之后，他自以为掌握另外侦探技巧，于是就开始调查一起抢劫案。经过几个星期的周密调查，他倒是追查到了三名疑犯，只可惜案发时这三个人都身在国外。（know sth inside out;track down）

This young man liked reading detective stories.After finished reading Holmes' stories,he thought he had known the detective's skills inside out and started to investigate a case of robbery.After a few weeks of close investigation,he tracked down three suspects,who turned out to be abroad when the robbery took place.

2.在本书中我们确实体会到了两种文化之间的差异。不过作者没有详细叙述这些差异，而是仔细讨论了两种文化的相同点，其中说得最多的是为什么这两种文化都如此强调工作的热忱。（dwell on;of which;loyalty）

In this book,we do find some differences between the two cultures.But instead of dwelling on the differences,the author presents lengthy discussion on things they have in common,of which their loyalty to work are most thoroughly touched upon.



Unit 6
1.人们很不理解为什么他一份工作干了30年，大多数人到了他这个年纪至少已经换了四五份工作了。也许对他来说，为了获得更高的薪水或是寻求体验新事物的刺激而换工作毫无意义。在他看来，唯一重要的事是稳定。（stick with;point;thrill）

People are quite puzzled about the fact that he has stuck with the same job for 30 years when most people of his age have changed at least four or five jobs.Maybe for him there is no point in changing jobs for a higher pay or for the thrill of experiencing somehting new.The only thing that matters,in his point of view,is stability.

2.协会中的大多数会员认为应该竭力游说政府，确保这项计划获得批准。至关重要的是要把决策者中的一些反对者争取过来。虽然这会很难，但是他们下定决心要作最大的努力。（lobbby;win over;adj.+though it+be;utmost）

Most members of the association believe that they need to lobby as hard as possible to make sure that the plan will be approved by the government.It's essential to win over some of the naysayer among the policy makers.Tough though it will be,they have made up their mind to make utmost efforts.